most_used/current_price.md, before:

# Current Price


The last closing price of the stock - the final price at which the stock traded during the most recent trading session.

## Formula
```text
Current Price = Last traded price at market close
```

## Components
- **Included**: Final transaction price of the trading day
- **Excluded**: Intraday high/low, opening price, bid/ask spreads
- **Unit**: Rs. (Indian Rupees)
- **Frequency**: Updated daily after market close

## Interpretation
| Price Movement | Interpretation |
|----------------|----------------|
| High vs 52-week | Near all-time highs, potential resistance |
| Low vs 52-week | Near all-time lows, potential support |
| Above 200-day MA | Bullish trend |
| Below 200-day MA | Bearish trend |
| High volatility | Increased risk/opportunity |

## Example
If a stock's last trading session shows:
- Opening Price: ₹1,200
- Day's High: ₹1,250
- Day's Low: ₹1,180
- **Current Price: ₹1,235** (last traded price)

## Advantages
- Real-time market valuation
- Essential for calculating ratios and returns
- Basis for technical analysis
- Primary reference for trading decisions

## Limitations
- Single point in time, doesn't show trend
- Can be manipulated in low-volume stocks
- Doesn't reflect intrinsic value
- Market sentiment can cause over/under valuation

## Industry Considerations
- **Banking**: Sensitive to interest rate changes
- **Technology**: High volatility, growth expectations
- **FMCG**: Stable, defensive characteristics
- **Commodities**: Tied to raw material prices

## Related Metrics
- Price-to-Earnings Ratio
- Price-to-Book Ratio
- 52-Week High/Low
- Moving Averages

## Best Practices
- Compare with historical averages
- Consider market conditions
- Analyze volume patterns
- Use in conjunction with fundamental analysis

---
*Last updated: Wed Oct 15 00:43:52 IST 2025*

Commit message:

Update financial metrics documentation for Average Return on Equity (3 and 5 years), Change in Promoter Holding, Current Price, Current Ratio, Debt to Equity, and Debt. Enhance definitions, formulas, components, interpretations, advantages, limitations, and key terms for improved clarity and usability. Adjust last updated dates for accuracy.

most_used/current_price.md, after:

# Current Price [CMP]

The last closing price of the stock - the final price at which the stock traded during the most recent trading session.

## Formula
```text
Current Price [CMP] = Last traded price at market close
```

## Components
- **Included**: Final transaction price of the trading day
- **Excluded**: Intraday high/low, opening price, bid/ask spreads
- **Unit**: Rs. (Indian Rupees)
- **Frequency**: Updated daily after market close

## Interpretation
| Price Movement | Interpretation |
|----------------|----------------|
| High vs 52-week | Near all-time highs, potential resistance |
| Low vs 52-week | Near all-time lows, potential support |
| Above 200-day MA | Bullish trend |
| Below 200-day MA | Bearish trend |
| High volatility | Increased risk/opportunity |

## Example
If a stock's last trading session shows:
- Opening Price: ₹1,200
- Day's High: ₹1,250
- Day's Low: ₹1,180
- **Current Price: ₹1,235** (last traded price)

## Advantages
- Real-time market valuation
- Essential for calculating ratios and returns
- Basis for technical analysis
- Primary reference for trading decisions

## Limitations
- Single point in time, doesn't show trend
- Can be manipulated in low-volume stocks
- Doesn't reflect intrinsic value
- Market sentiment can cause over/under valuation

## Industry Considerations
- **Banking**: Sensitive to interest rate changes
- **Technology**: High volatility, growth expectations
- **FMCG**: Stable, defensive characteristics
- **Commodities**: Tied to raw material prices

## Related Metrics
- Price-to-Earnings Ratio
- Price-to-Book Ratio
- 52-Week High/Low
- Moving Averages

## Key Terms
- **Current Price (CMP)**: The last traded price of a stock at the close of the trading session (9:15 to 15:30); represents the consensus value for a share at the end of the day.
- **Last Traded Price (LTP)**: The price at which the most recent transaction was executed during a trading session.
- **Closing Price**: Usually synonymous with current price; the final price at which a stock is traded for the day.
- **Market Order**: An order to buy or sell a security immediately at the best available price.
- **Bid/Ask Spread**: The difference between the highest price a buyer is willing to pay (bid) and the lowest price a seller is willing to accept (ask); not reflected in current price.
- **52-Week High/Low**: The highest and lowest price a stock has traded at during the previous 52 weeks.
- **Moving Average (MA)**: The average of closing prices over a specific number of days; used to identify trends.
- **Volatility**: The degree of variation in a trading price series over time; high volatility reflects larger price swings.
- **Fair Value/Intrinsic Value**: An estimation of a stock’s actual worth, which may differ from its current price.
- **Liquidity**: The ease with which a stock can be bought or sold without affecting its price.
- **Market Sentiment**: The overall attitude of investors toward a particular security reflected in price movement.



---
*Last updated: Wed Oct 15 00:43:52 IST 2025*
